If you're considering running Docker Compose the command
line on a production server, this lecture's
for you. Because I'm here to try to convince you to not do
that. Docker Compose the command line is a great
developer and testing tool, but it is not designed,
and not ideal, for production deployments.
To be clear, I'm not talking about the Docker Compose file.
That file can be used in various ways with production
clustering systems like Swarm and Kubernetes.
That file is used in lots of places.
It's just YAML describing your application and can be
consumed by many things.
What I am talking about is the Docker Compose CLI,
that command line that you've learned so much about
throughout this course.
That is really designed as a dev and test tool, but it
doesn't understand production concepts.
First, it only understands the single engine,
or server, that it's talking to.
So, if you have more than one server, it can't help
you. It would have to be run separately on each server,
which becomes very tedious.
The number two reason I don't recommend Docker Compose in
production is that it doesn't understand production
concerns like healthchecks, or rolling
updates, or uptime.
It doesn't realize that these things are necessary because
it's not designed for that. So, it doesn't give you options
for those kinds of scenarios and certainly doesn't give you
flexibility like a lot of orchestrators and more
advanced container run times do.
You might be thinking, well, I have very simple
requirements. I only need a single server and I don't
really need crazy uptime.
It's OK if I have a couple of minutes of downtime when I
need to update my apps and maybe I don't update then very
often. I'm here to argue that Swarm
is still a great option for you, and it's not much
more work than what you're already doing.
If you're already using Docker Compose, you have created
that Compose file and Swarm is built into
the Docker command line itself, the Docker Engine, and can
consume that same Compose file.
Almost all the features you've been using with Compose
throughout this course can translate into the Version 3
file format that is compatible with Swarm
and Kubernetes, if you're using something like Kubernetes
on Compose, which is an extra Kubernetes add-on.
My recommendation is even if you have a single server, or
just three servers, try out Swarm first.
If you don't have a requirement for a specific clustering
technology or container deployment solution, give Swarm
a try. It's really meant to be the easy button for
orchestration, and it works out-of-the-box with Docker and
works with your Compose files.
If you want more information on the detailed reasons why
you might consider Swarm over Docker Compose, and the pros
and cons, there's a resource link included with this
lecture to a GitHub post where I detailed
my top 10 reasons...maybe its top 10.
It's something around that. You can check that out at
a later time. But, understand that really if you've
taken any of my other courses, you've heard me talk about
Swarm because it is a great, easy orchestrator to get
started with.
If you're considering Kubernetes and you keep hearing the
buzz about Kubernetes, it is definitely the most popular
orchestrator, but it may not be for you depending
on your size and requirements.
If you're thinking about a small deployment, something that
may only need one to five servers, then Kubernetes
is probably not recommended for you.
In most of those cases, I would recommend Swarm because it
will work well with one or even three servers.
One server with Swarm would provide you no fault
tolerance, but it would still work great and would provide
you extra features over top of Docker Compose.
If you had three servers, Swarm can provide you full
encryption and fault tolerance and load balancing.
With Kubernetes, you're going to need more infrastructure
than that. If you're considering Kubernetes, my first
recommendation is try one of the cloud hosted
versions of Kubernetes. Whether it's Amazon, or Azure or
DigitalOcean, they all now have a Kubernetes offering,
and you can create deployment YAML files to use
with those services. That way, you won't have to build your
own Kubernetes infrastructure unless you really, really
need it. If you're in a large team, with multiple DevOps
members, and you know you need Kubernetes, then you
probably already have a plan for that and you know what
you're doing. You maybe have bought a product or are using
something like Rancher, or Docker Enterprise, or OpenShift,
and that's fine. Those are great distributions of
Kubernetes that take a lot of the work out of building
your cluster. Swarm doesn't require all of that.
So, if you can get away with the simpler version of
clustering, like Swarm, then check that out.